Type: page
Title: Summaries of Books I've Read
Date: 2009-10-24

October 24, 2009 **[Blindsight by Peter Watts][watts]**

I don't know where I stumbled across this, but it is pretty cool. It's an
exploration of the nature of consciousness, in the guise of an encounter with
smart aliens with intelligence vastly different from our own. The writing is
typically sci-fi, and I don't know if I'd give it to someone who wasn't
committed to reading it for the deeper subtext. What I really have to give
Watts props for is all the research that has gone into this. Reading the well
cited notes at the end is a treat in and of itself. He discusses a plausible
biology of vampirism, bugs in the human sensory system, space travel, his
unique alien's nervous system and biology, and finally consciousness. He's
clearly very smart and there's a lot to explore from here!

October 2009 **Lord of the Flies by William Golding**

Not a bad book. I'm glad I've finally read it somehow managing to miss it all
through high school. Golding's prose is choppy and vague, but the book offers
a fantastic allegorical substrate.

The [wikipedia page][lof] takes the angle that it's about the nature of
civilization and savagery, unfortunately equating savagery with evil. There's
an alternative way to read it though.  Something interesting to note about the
boys' rescue was that it was a navy officer who rescued them and he arrived in
a gunship. This juxtaposes the adults' "civilized" war with the "savage" war
the boys are having. Just as the fear Hitler stirred up mesmerized Nazi
Germany and allowed him to channel it towards his own ends, Jack used fear of
the Beast to win support from the other boys (Roger as the SS).

I think it's interesting that the bearers of truth, Simon and Piggy, are
killed for doing so.

Meh. Golding fetishizes civilisation too much for my taste.


[lof]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lord_of_the_Flies
[watts]: http://www.rifters.com/real/Blindsight.htm
